RATP Metro Route Finder Documentation
Overview
This project implements a metro route finding algorithm that calculates the shortest path between metro stations using a graph representation of the metro network.
Code Structure
main.c: Contains the main logic for route finding.
graph.c: Functions for managing the graph structure.
graph.h: Header file for graph.c.
utils.c / utils.h: Utility functions and helpers.
Functions
int main(int argc, char *argv[])
Purpose: The entry point of the program. It reads input, initializes the graph, and finds the shortest path.
Parameters:
argc: The number of command-line arguments.
argv: Array of command-line arguments.
Returns:
int: Returns 0 on successful execution.
Description:
Parses command-line arguments to read input files or data.
Initializes the graph with metro stations and connections.
Calls the find_route function to compute the shortest path.
Outputs the results to the console.
void find_route(Graph *graph, int start_station, int end_station)
Purpose: Finds the shortest path between start_station and end_station in the metro network.
Parameters:
graph: Pointer to the graph structure representing the metro network.
start_station: The starting station for the route.
end_station: The destination station for the route.
Returns:
void
Description:
Uses a shortest path algorithm (e.g., Dijkstra’s) to compute the path.
Updates and prints the shortest path and distance.
Graph* initialize_graph(const char *filename)
Purpose: Initializes the graph from a file.
Parameters:
filename: The name of the file containing graph data.
Returns:
Graph*: A pointer to the initialized graph structure.
Description:
Reads the graph data from the specified file.
Allocates memory and sets up the graph structure with stations and connections.
void print_route(Graph *graph, int *path, int path_length)
Purpose: Prints the computed route from start to end.
Parameters:
graph: Pointer to the graph structure.
path: Array representing the shortest path.
path_length: The length of the path array.
Returns:
void
Description:
Outputs the stations and total distance of the shortest path to the console.


